Xavier Cortada
Xavier Ignacio Cortada (born September 13, 1964 in Albany, New York) is an American artist and former lawyer.
He grew up in Miami from the age of 3. He holds a degree from the University of Miami College of Arts and Sciences (Bachelor of Arts,1986), the Miami Business School (Master of Public Administration, 1991) and School of Law (Juris Doctor 1991).[5]
Cortada's science art practice is oriented toward social engagement and the environment. He has created art installations in the Earth's poles to generate awareness about global climate change: In 2007, as a National Science Foundation Antarctic Artist and Writer's Program Fellow, the artist used the moving ice sheet beneath the South Pole as an instrument to mark time; the art piece will be completed in 150,000 years.[6] In 2008, he planted a green flag at the North Pole to reclaim it for nature and launch an eco-art reforestation effort.
Cortada often collaborates with scientists in his art-making:
The Miami artist has worked with groups globally to produce numerous collaborative art projects, including peace murals in Cyprus and Northern Ireland, child welfare murals in Bolivia and Panama, AIDS murals in Switzerland and South Africa, juvenile justice murals and projects in Miami and Philadelphia, and eco-art projects in Taiwan, Hawaii, the Netherlands and Latvia.
Cortada has also been commissioned to create art for CERN, the White House,[11] the World Bank, the Florida Supreme Court, the Florida Governor's Mansion, Florida Botanical Gardens, Miami City Hall, Miami-Dade County Hall, the Florida Turnpike, Miami-Dade Housing Authority, the Frost Science Museum, Museum of Florida History, and the Frost Art Museum.
His work is in the permanent collections of the Perez Art Museum Miami (PAMM), the NSU Museum of Art in Ft. Lauderdale, the Whatcom Museum, the Patricia and Philip Frost Art Museum and the MDC Museum of Art + Design.
Corporations such as General Mills, Nike, Heineken, and Hershey's have commissioned his art. Publishers like McDougal and Random House have featured it in school textbooks and publications. His work has also been featured in National Geographic TV and the Discovery Channel.
Cortada's studio is located at Pinecrest Gardens where he serves as artist-in-residence, implements his participatory art projects and runs the Hibiscus Gallery. The artist also serves on boards of various national, regional and local groups, including University of Miami Alumni Association, South Arts and the Miami-Dade Cultural Affairs Council.
